## 2.1

### 32 & 64

Most 64-bit machines can also run programs compiled for use on 32-bit machines, a form of backward compatibility. So, for example, when a program prog.c is compiled with the directive

`gcc -m32 target.c`

if fatal error occurs, believe yourself, you are good at coding, you are the anius. It's just because of your 64-bit machine has not installed the 32-bit headers and libraries. Run `sudo apt-get install gcc-multilib` and keep running.

then this program will run correctly on either a 32-bit or a 64-bit machine. On the other hand, a program compiled with the directive

`gcc -m64 prog.c`

will only run on a 64-bit machine. We will therefore refer to programs as being either “32-bit programs” or “64-bit programs,” **since the distinction lies in how a program is compiled, rather than the type of machine on which it runs**.

### Data type

\* **All pointer types take same number of bytes for a compiler**. (4 Byte for 32-bits and 8 Bytes for 64-bits)

To avoid the vagaries of relying on “typical” sizes and different compiler settings, ISO C99 introduced a class of data types where the data sizes are fixed regardless of compiler and machine settings. Among these are data types **int32_t** and **int64_t**, having exactly 4 and 8 bytes, respectively. **Using fixed-size integer types is the best way for programmers to have close control over data representations**.

Most of the data types encode signed values, unless prefixed by the keyword unsigned or using the specific unsigned declaration for fixed-size data types. The exception to this is data type char. Although most compilers and machines treat these as signed data, the C standard does not guarantee this. Instead, as indicated by the square brackets, the programmer should use the declaration signed char to guarantee a 1-byte signed value. **In many contexts, however, the program’s behavior is insensitive to whether data type char is signed or unsigned.**

**And read [this](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/5150447/c-question-why-char-actually-occupies-4-bytes-in-memory).**

### Down to Byte





